---
layout: post
title: MS-CAP: Probabilistic Diffusion Model Conditioned on Multi-Scale ChAracter Pairs for Style Transfer in Handwriting Strokes GenerationS
cover-img: /assets/img/HI.jpg
---

The handwriting stroke generation is crucial for improving the performance
of tasks such as handwriting recognition and writer’s order recovery. In
handwriting stroke generation, imitating a calligraphic style of template
image has significant importance. However, previous studies have not em-
phasized the calligraphic features, which in turn results in inadequate style
imitation.
In our work, we utilize a strong multi-scale feature to train the diffusion
model conditioned on arbitrary textual content. We propose multi-scale
attention features to represent the character embedding and character-pair
embedding. The embeddings highlights local and global style features for
handwriting stroke generation.
Additionally, the conventional handwriting image evaluation methods
are based on natural images, which do not capture global writing style and
character shape. In our work, we propose style distance and projected char-
acter shape matching for the evaluation of handwriting stroke generation.
Moreover, we train our diffusion model with the Dynamic Time Warping
(DTW) loss function, along with the diffusion loss, which eliminates the
need to train any auxiliary networks for text or writer style recognition.
Our experimentation shows that the proposed probabilistic diffusion
model trained with multiscale attention style features and dynamic time
Warping outperforms the current state-of-the-art stroke generation network.
